How to run the LifeSecure Project

Prerequisites

Before starting, ensure you have the following installed on your computer:

1. Java Development Kit (JDK): JDK 8 or newer.
2. PostgreSQL Server: (Important: Use PostgreSQL, not MySQL).
3. Apache Tomcat: (Version 9 is standard for this project).

Step 1: Set up the PostgreSQL Database
Your application is specifically looking for a database named "lifesecure", a user named "postgres", and the password "1234". 

Here is how to set it up:

1. Open pgAdmin (the tool that comes with PostgreSQL) or the psql command line.
2. Log in using the default "postgres" user.
3. During PostgreSQL installation, if you were asked to set a password for the "postgres" user, you must set it to "1234". 
   (Alternatively, if your password is different, you'll need to change the Java code—see Step 2).
4. Create a new database named exactly: lifesecure
5. Run the SQL Script:
   - Select the "lifesecure" database.
   - Open the Query Tool (in pgAdmin) or use the command line.
   - Open the file named "setup_db.sql" (located in the main project folder).
   - Copy all the contents of "setup_db.sql" and execute it to create the necessary tables.

Step 2: Database Credentials in the Code 

Your application's database details are hardcoded in LifeSecure/WEB-INF/classes/com/lifesecure/util/DBConnection.java. 

If you installed PostgreSQL with a different password than "1234", you MUST edit this file.

1. Open LifeSecure/WEB-INF/classes/com/lifesecure/util/DBConnection.java in any text editor.
2. Look for these lines:
   con = DriverManager.getConnection(
       "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/lifesecure",
       "postgres",
       "1234"
   );
3. Change "1234" to the exact password you chose during the PostgreSQL installation.
4. Keep the username as "postgres" and the database name as "lifesecure" unless you changed those too.
5. Save the file.
(Note: Because this is a .java file, if you change the code, you will technically need to re-compile the Java class into a .class file using your IDE like Eclipse or VS Code before running it inside Tomcat).

Step 3: Set up Apache Tomcat and Deploy

I see the project is set up as an unzipped folder named LifeSecure.
1. Download Apache Tomcat 9 (a .zip or .tar.gz bundle) and extract it anywhere on your computer (e.g., C:\apache-tomcat-9.0).
2. Open the Tomcat folder, and go into the webapps folder (C:\apache-tomcat-9.0\webapps).
3. Copy the entire LifeSecure folder that was sent to you.
4. Paste the LifeSecure folder directly into the Tomcat webapps folder.

Step 4: Start Tomcat

1. Go back to the main Tomcat directory (C:\apache-tomcat-9.0).
2. Open the bin folder.
3. Find the file named startup.bat (on Windows) or startup.sh (on Mac/Linux).
4. Double-click startup.bat. A black terminal window will open and begin running the server. Do not close this window!

Step 5: Access the Application

1. Open up Google Chrome or Firefox.
2. In the URL bar, type exactly: 
   http://localhost:8080/LifeSecure
   (Ensure the 'L' and 'S' are capitalized, matching the folder name exactly).
3. The project should now load!